[1.20.0] Airgapped updates using CLI (#301)
replicatedhq/kots.io: content/kotsadm/updating/updating-kots-apps.md

draft: false
---

## Using Admin Console

The simplest way to update a KOTS application is through the "Version History" tab on the Admin Console.
This method works for both online and airgapped installs.

### Checking for Updates

> The Admin Console automatically checks for updates once every 15 minutes.

Reviewer: @codelingobot capture "admin console" should be capitalized as "Admin Console"

> To manually check for a more recent version, click the "Check for updates" button at the top of the admin console.

Reviewer: @codelinegobot capture "admin console" should be capitalized as "Admin Console"

> In airgapped instances this button will be replaced with a `Upload a new version` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In airgapped instances this button will be replaced with an `Upload a new version` button.
```

Airgapped instances cannot check for updates automatically.

> When an update is available, a new upstream version will show in the list of released versions.

Reviewer 2: This is weird in this order. Sounds like "when an update is available" is directly related to airgapped instances.

> ![New Version Available](/images/new-version-available.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[![New Version Available](/images/new-version-available.png)](/images/new-version-available.png)
```

### Comparing Changes Between Releases
When a new version of the KOTS application is available, you can compare the changes for the new version(s) against the current version by clicking the "files changed" text in the the "Source" column.

> ![New Changes](/images/new-changes.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[![New Changes](/images/new-changes.png)](/images/new-changes.png)
```

> ![Diff Releases](/images/diff-releases.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[![Diff Releases](/images/diff-releases.png)](/images/diff-releases.png)
```

### Preflight Checks
Click the "Preflight results" link to run the preflight checks defined by the application vendor.
Based on the outcome of each preflight check, you can decide whether or not to perform the upgrade by clicking the "Continue" button.

> ![Preflight Checks](/images/preflight-checks.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[![Preflight Checks](/images/preflight-checks.png)](/images/preflight-checks.png)
```

Preflight failures and warnings do not preclude the upgrade to a new version.
The installer may elect to ignore these failures and proceed with the upgrade.

### Updating
An update is performed by clicking "Continue" on the preflight checks page, or by clicking the "Deploy" button on the "Version History" tab.
At this point, the current cluster will be updated to the new version of the KOTS application and the "Deployed" status will be set on that version.

> ![Updated Version](/images/version-history.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[![Updated Version](/images/version-history.png)](/images/version-history.png)
```

## Using CLI

> Admin Console CLI can be used to install and deploy updates for both online and airgapped instances as well.

Reviewer: This should be `The KOTS CLI`, it's not the Admin Console CLI?

> Admin Console CLI can be used to install and deploy updates for both online and airgapped instances as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kots CLI can be used to deploy updates for both online and airgapped instances.
```
